1 SELF INTRODUCTION :
               
Myself Ramesh and i have been holding my b-tech graduation.i have 3 years of experience in IT industry and I started my professional career with TCS and I had been working there for around 2 years and then I switched to olr and im working here for 1 year as a devops and AWS cloud engineer.
 
Currently i am working under the  Xstore retail and ecommarce project  and we are developing the oss(operational support systems) environment applications like net cool, infovista ,cramer. I am the part of devops team having the size of 5 members including  one team lead. coming to my role in this project, its build and release engineer revolving over 24/7 shifts. We handle entire application build and release management process.
 
Moving to the  working and known technologies, i have good knowledge on source code management tool git ,bulid tool maven, continious integration and deployment tool jenkins, configuration management tool ansible. coming to the monitoring tools i have good knowledge on nagios and cloud watch. Coming to the static code analysis and code coverage tool sonarqube i have good knowledge on it. And then the backup repositories jfrog and nexus, which are used for backing up the binaries, i have good knowledge on them.
       
Cominig to the containerization tool, I have knowledge on docker and for the container orchestration, I have basic knowledge on kubernetes. We are using ticketing tool service now.

2   roles and responsibilities :

git
 
1. creating branches like feature, release and hot fix for new releases and up gradation and for bug fixing of existing application.  
2. creating user accounts and repositories.
3. administration of version control systems
                --- backups, rollbacks,

build and releases

1. creating scheduled and manual ci jobs
2. creating accounts for developers
3. administration activities like backups , plugin installation , integrating third party tools and configuring them.
4. Follow up with the dev teams on ci build issues.
5. monitoring the build jobs.

release process
for new releases we will follow releases calender and we do the builds by following the same

1. major releases : these releases are long term and original application releases.this will take  in between 3-6 months.
2. minor releases : these release are for doing the enhancement for upgradation of existing application. this will take around 1-2 weeks
3. hotfix release : these are the releases for bug fixing. These are to be done within 1-2 days if bugs are thrown by the application


errors:    
1. git may go down/ access issues
2. compilation errors
3. server down (network issue)
4. server disk full
5. permission issue

preventive actions:

we will set pre build check list for prevention of build failures

1. we will circulate the email to not to touch git.and locking the branches at build time.
2. by conducting the mock builds
3. sever/network down will be checked before starting the  build .
4. by running server verification script
-ping
-disk space
-services should run from the root.
-checking the versions
-stop services
 
By implementing the above script 90% of the issues can be sorted out.    
versioning